Good morning, folks.
We're live.
I am uh still quite exhausted post
release,
but what I figured I'd do is I' over the
next week or so, I'll do a few sort of
shorter streams, maybe 3, four hours
type sort of a deal and um I'll merge
some environments.
I'll sort of start thinking a little bit
about what we're going to do with Puffer
5. I'll clean some stuff up that I
didn't get to and all of that.
That'll be a decent thing to do.
Trying to think if we just start merging
ends.
Maybe we just start merging some ends.
title.
All right, we can do this one.
I've been completely exhausted for the
last several days. Um, I barely even had
motivation to do any exercise.
So, I definitely have crashed, but and
it's going to be quite a while before
I'm back, you know, full doing full full
days, but I figured I'd put in a few
shorter streams,
see how it goes.
So, we'll see if there's any issue with
this.
We will do
it'll work.
Okay, it's just a bunch of small
uh these PGs could get compressed.
Got binding C.
Uh, this is a
this is a 30 and
I see. So, we'll have to port this.
Not that one.
Where do we have box of bone?
Oh.
Uh, are you like, if you're watching
from home, Tim, can you compress the uh
the asset files real quick? Those look
like they're pretty small PGs and
they're just like massive.
Should be able to shave like
a few megs off the PR. Not a big deal if
not.
I'll merge it either way. But yeah, this
is
extra eight megs of assets.
Okay, let's see what we have here. So,
binding
standard to net. That's interesting.
Bite tensor obs.
Not sure.
I mean, just any of the compression
tools would do it. Welcome to JPEGs.
Thanks, Anish.
Ah, no worries, Tim. You can PR that
later.
I mean, it's way more important that we
actually just get this nicely integrated
first.
Oh, wait. This is the C file, so this is
fine.
Yeah, this is fine.
You should not have to do this.
There a couple weird things, but nothing
too major here. Only four 30 lines for
the actual end itself is very nice.
Um this py file is now completely
redundant.
Maps is this. Okay. So there is a map
generator as well.
That's fine.
I have to look at the map gen code
separately.
It will take. Yeah, I'm going to just be
merging M's whenever inh.
There's several I have to do.
I would say that your constant names are
quite long.
Um
yeah, these constant names are quite
long
which leads these the code to be very
long down here, the lines to be very
long.
Not a huge deal. One thing to just pay
attention to
is directed at four. Okay. So, let's get
this merged in.
protein structures
for protein.
Um, so longer term biosim is probably my
top interest category for puffer.
I really think that RL needs to be a
super stable mature thing though first.
We're only one or two versions away from
that.
I think the next little bit of research
we should pretty much get ourselves into
the territory where we're just solving
crazy problems out of the box
and then I'll be a lot more confident
throwing it on
much heavier stuff like that.
Uh, to be determined, Anes,
I hope so.
Yeah, it's no biggie. I can just I'll
move stuff
less than half a second.
Yeah,
pretty fast.
wasn't expecting.
No worries, Tim. I'll fix it up a little
bit and then we'll chat about it a bunch
some other time.
I'm just going to fix some conflicts and
get it cleaned up. I'm not going to I
won't mess with all the code. I'll do
the uh I'll do code review and
improvement stuff with you later when
we're uh both around.
There we are.
Much better. Right.
Oh, tiny mini batch size though.
We can re sweep this easily.
This is one of these examples of like if
you're learning to program from Claude,
um like there's some this is complete
[ __ ] here. This error checking just
doesn't need to exist.
You shouldn't ever be handling stuff
like this. It should just fail
immediately.
Let's see if this is can give us a a
clean.
Okay. The any file,
E file,
H
apps file.
Oh, that's just the uh Hang on. That's
really annoying, actually.
right. So now we have six GPUs running
sweeps.
and we just leave this be.
We'll see if we get a cool policy out of
it.
Lo, yeah, Jess just doing a few hour
stream at the moment.
Uh, I just merged in Tim's box
environment. It needed some fiddling
with to get it nicely into 40 and I
started up a sweep on it. So, we got six
GPUs running against it on the medium
maps and we'll see how that goes.
Um, I'm going to get a quick bench set
up. Then we will proceed to the next
thing.
Environments.
What environments do we merge?
It's a cool little end.
Actually like that.
just all split up into a bunch of
different files.
Yeah, this is the type of thing. This
will be LLM heavy. Cuz what I basically
would want to do is I just want to like
pick everything all together.
This should also be a sprite sheet.
Yeah, but they're tiny. It doesn't super
matter.
I actually don't know how to do this off
the top of my head. Hang on.
lose unttracked files in them.
Seriously,
Oh, [ __ ] that.
Yeah, we're not doing that.
Well, now we know that's not a thing we
do.
It's so funny to me how it's like
literally the best way to do things is
to just copy the damn files over.
I've done that enough times now that I
no longer feel like an idiot for just
doing it wrong. It's just genuinely the
case that the heavy get tools just suck.
Like, no, I'm not rebasing it. I'm not
cherry-picking. [ __ ] off.
like literally the best way to do this.
All right, here's the non-idiot way to
do this. Or rather, the idiot way to do
this.
Clone this
Look at the PR,
right?
sweep.
Uh, I should dock it, Jess. I haven't
played with it in a while. It's one of
the things I was meaning to play with
more.
better than the alternatives? Not
really. I'm just sick of giving
anthropic money
and um I really don't use these models
as heavily as other people do. So,
this here is like um this is a very very
well-defined simple port.
You see, this is pretty much just the
same thing.
It really this like this scrolling bug
is really annoying though.
recommend a great book of resources.
Yeah. So, uh we have all the resources
right here. They're all free.
I have a pretty extensive collection of
articles.
You can start down here with the guides
and like all of our latest research. all
the new soda stuff that just came out in
the last week. We have I mean look at
this. This is how we made RL 20 million
steps per second. Very accessible
engineering article. This is our new
like high performance RL visualizations.
This is our new soda architecture all
here.
All we ask is that you star the puffer
on GitHub.
AI engineer conference recommended this
library.
Thank you. Yeah. So the deal around here
is I do ultra high performance RL. Uh we
do engineering, we do like research, we
do a lot of stuff. Uh you catching me
right after the recent release. It's
like eight months worth of dev. So we
have some pretty awesome new tools out
now and they're stable and they're easy
to use and I'm pretty tired from that.
So I'm sort of going to be getting back
into the workflow over the next few
weeks. And um we're merging a whole
bunch of contributor environments,
contributor made RL environments that I
haven't had a chance to look at since.
Uh we have some new research items on
the agenda to look into and we've got
some plans for the next version to go
MLX and Puffer.
Uh there's a torch back end for it, but
Puffer 4 itself is CUDA. CUDA's Nvidia.
We do have a uh a torch
pullback that I think you can pass. Not
MLX, MJX, right?
I don't know what which whatever is the
one that Torch uses the the Torch Apple
back end. technically you can use.
There's also a guy that was doing like a
bunch of metal shaders, but frankly I
you end up spending more effort than it
would take to write all of Puffer 4 in
order to support your ridiculously slow
overpriced hardware. Um, like seriously,
it's a fifth of the speed of hardware
the same price
or less.
Hey, this just works.
Yeah, what we need is um back
minimum V RAM for a CUDA card. I mean,
it's just your budget, right? The Puffer
is very friendly on VRAM. Um, you can
run even a lot of it with 4 gigs.
Uh, I think that like
the the main reason to get like a 5090
over a 4090 for instance is the speed.
It's not the VRAM. I think there's maybe
one or two ends that have configs by
default that don't fit on the 4090 and
like you could very easily reoptimize
that to fit on the 4090. Puffer is
really nice and actually we don't even
have it VRAM optimized. Like Huffers
should be considered really memory
unfriendly the way we do stuff and it's
still just way more compact than other
stuff out there.
We could probably improve our memory
usage quite a bit without a ton of
effort. sacrifice maybe like couple
percent perf
Hey, vault. Not fully back to work. I
figured I'd do a few hour stream today.
I'd be very happy to take a look at um
at least start taking a look at your
end, though, as soon as I get this one
merged. I'm almost done with this.
Oh, yeah. Vault. Um, this is how you can
tell I've been
pretty exhausted and not wanting to do
anything.
Uh
this is from the last three days
What did I do? Say I'm AFK. Nope. I did
freaking
uh mahogany gnome benches and
uh black dehide bodies.
this here. By the end of today, I'll
have 90 here for redwood log lantern.
And then I can AFK this during leagues.
running through some cash.
Uh, I don't ever do this, but let's just
say I might have rewarded myself for the
release with a few bombs.
I figured I wouldn't ruin the uh
experience for myself just by, you know,
cutting four hours off of the uh
like cutting what was it? No, like
cutting like seven or eight hours off of
the crafting grind, which with uh versus
what I would have done normally.
I mean realistically it just boosts me
to 450k an hour optimal versus 330k
for the cheap method.
This is nice.
We get a nice clean GIF out of this.
Now, let me figure out who submitted
this.
I think
uh Anish if you show
dependency issues while running the
docker you shouldn't run into dependency
issues while running the docker. If you
uh like I need the report of them to fix
it though.
Dinosaur ends.
If it's PR, I'll take a look.
Okay, this is the contributor that
submitted this.
about puffer. Oh, yeah. Cool.
Is there an env here? Anish, is there do
you have an en number for me?
I also want to look at Vault's um Vault
stuff.
I'm not entirely sure what to do with
vault stuff given that he has a PR with
more lines of code than all of Popper.
What should I do with this?
I mean, I want to at least Let me pull
this, I guess,
and play with it first.
You have this many files. Let's see
these all assets. Okay, so the good news
is a lot of these are just assets that
aren't on a sprite sheet.
There's enough of these that we should
sprite sheet some of it, but
I can't PR
the assets to this, right? Vault,
that'll get us copyright claimed
I see.
I think those are going to have to
getzipped and then uploaded somewhere.
I don't even know how I'm supposed to
look at.
Okay. So, presumably
I'm guessing that you've been like
getting LLMs to do porting and write
tests or something.
You're not going to tell me you write
comments like this, right? Or that
you've written 40,000 lines of code in
the last couple months.
I like the structure at the very least.
Looks like you got big chunky files for
the thing.
A lot of back and forth. Oh, I imagine
it looks like you're kind of doing this
in the way that actual
I'm hoping that you're doing this in the
way that actual engineer who knows what
he's doing does when you have just a
giant blob of stuff to port and kind of
the only way to do it reasonably was
with uh heavy LLM use.
This is roughly what I would probably
do.
I love the way that freaking
LM's format stuff. [ __ ]
Honestly, I don't like abstracting is
kind of a bad word around here,
especially for its own sake.
We basically only ever
do stuff that just makes the code
massively shorter.
Okay, so I guess I'm just going to clone
this for now
and play with it a little bit.
Easy for us to understand,
I see.
And a lot of that comes down to not
making a bunch of fancy systems.
Uh,
where's my config?
Ah.
Oh, wait. The config.
Oh, is it an ocean? Maybe.
Ah, yeah, there it is.
All right. Well, how am I supposed to
render this stuff?
exhos before I enter the container.
Yeah, I don't know. An is it'd be nice
if somebody would figure out what the
hell that is about and if there's a way
around it.
Uh, you have make
make.
Ah.
Uh,
it's not linking Rayb
because Rayb isn't here. Do I need to
move Rayb into here?
Can you get a install script or
something so I can try this?
I want to play with this.
Once I can get this thing to run nicely,
I can um know I can start running sweeps
and stuff. I have nice servers to run
sweeps on.
already 264
oxabon experiments.
right? Let's see. Python.
Wait.
Uh, there is no setup.py, my guy.
There's no setup.py. What are we on
about?
LSRS inferno Zuck.
We get this like
failure, right?
Yeah, I did this.
But then I can't
like, you know,
and you don't have a standalone, so
there's no
at least not where it's expecting a
standalone.
What is stream author doing? Uh, at the
moment we've got vaults.
I'm looking at vaults uh old school RS
simulator port to see.
Uh, one moment. Yeah. And I'm merging
some stuff in. One second.
All right. Uh,
one second, folks.
Well, it'll be really cool if we can
show this thing to people. I I'd like to
know where the setup stuff is for this.
Did this not work?
Python puffer.
What? Like that's not even the right
folder, right?
There's no puffl.
It would be pufferlib.puffl.
And then this isn't going to work
because the config is not there.
Why can't I see you? One second is up.
Camera go back on in a second. Some
stuff in the background.
When it's fixed, that works. I guess I
can take a look at a couple other PRs in
the meanwhile.
handle on Twitter, Jay Suarez,
and we have all our educational stuff on
here as well.
All these articles
Zelda make a good RLN.
Uh, if you could make it fast, Anesh, I
actually lean key in the Discord did a
port of Zelda at one point. Well, not a
port, like a an emulator rapper version
of Zelda and it was just too slow.
XM
uh, you would it be helpful if I just
merged this thing, Jess? It looks short.
And do you know the funny thing about
Hex?
That's my username.
Okay, new line curly bracer is not
appreciated.
oh, it's just hardcoded here. That's
fine.
this is simple enough. We can just merge
this.
there. Minus 100 lines of just curly
braces. Another
first time to work
after is easy and smooth. I mean, if you
don't have experience with the low-level
stuff finish, it's going to be a big
change,
right? It's going to just be a big
change.
what shared headers do you have, Vault?
Do you have new stuff that's like just
OSRS specific?
Cuz in that case, you would make the
build script, download it to vendored, I
guess. Or that doesn't make any [ __ ]
sense. That's the whole point of
vendored is that it's pre-downloaded.
I guess what stuff do you have in there
is my question.
I think vendor OSRS makes sense
depending on what it is.
It's all shared headers.
What do you mean it's all shared
headers?
Oh, if it's not external libraries, if
it's just your code, then yeah, it just
goes in source OSRS.
Oh, you mean shared across the
scenarios?
Yeah. See, this is one of the slightly
awkward things with the way you have it
at the moment. I guess for now you would
just put it in source OSRS and then you
would um you would add some commands to
the build script to like link that for
OSRS to add like one line.
Yeah, X is done. Example ends like this.
Yeah. Well, I mean, it's a big end. It's
going to take a little bit. I think
longer term, you'd probably what you
would do is you would have one con.
Well, it depends if we need different
hypers, I guess, for the different
scenarios.
There are a few ways you could do it.
I guess it's fine to just do it that
way, right? Just have it linked.
Vastly different configs. Man, man, once
you get me um if you can just get me a
decent setup so that it'll just, you
know, you run the install, it downloads
the assets, and then I can just build
it, then I can actually play with it,
and I can help start helping you debug.
I'm not going to do a full stream today,
so presumably it'll be like tomorrow or
whatever. Um though, actually, you only
have you've got two days until leagues
start and then I'm busy with leagues.
So hopefully if you get something before
then I can start running some
experiments uh over the course of that
play will be another N to play with.
I think hex is a simpler env. I don't
know what the skill cap is on on hex
chess. But one cool thing you'll be able
to do is you'll be able to see like elo
verse or something. You'll be able to
get the curve for hex versus the curve
for chess. It might be a nice little way
to test selfplay that's not so compute
hungry.
bit harder
merge.
What else did I promise? Um,
seeing if Puffer is a good fit.
Yeah,
I mean it definitely will be. It's like,
oh, that trained in two seconds right
out of the box.
I mean, when people are trying to learn
stuff, I give people good feedback at
least an ish.
If you saw some of the code that I wrote
when I was new, like I wrote I think
I've written dumber stuff than I've seen
any individual contributor PR. I'm
pretty sure some of the early stuff I
wrote in my first research project was
worse than anything that I've ever seen
PR de Puffer.
Who's is this?
I know that this is a viewers.
Forgetting which viewer this is.
D you anish I I don't think it's
possible nowadays.
So, not only was I like 16 and had been
trained in Java of all things, Java and
Mat Lab, that was my intro to
programming,
um, but I had also I was also so
incredibly sleepd deprived that it's a
wonder that I was able to learn anything
at all.
Let me go check on one thing and then
we'll do
All right, we will merge this one after
uh quick finish set.
a very underrated training split is just
doing the thing you want to be better at
every day.
10x 10 by 225. That sounds awful. Vault,
I Why the hell would I do that? That
sounds terrible.
What's always been my worst lift? My
best was only like a 325
think. Have I done two plates for 10? I
think I have done two plates for 10. I
know I've done it for at least eight
gym for multiclassing. It is quite
effective.
We go 10 by 10 by Yeah, but like that's
basically cardio vault. What's the
point?
Like if I want to do cardio, I just do
cardio.
I did get a two I got a two plate and
bench for 10 the other day. That was
pretty good.
I've done like not 10 sets of that. I
think I've done that for like five or
six sets.
Yeah, it sucks.
It is mostly cardio though.
Like lactic acid burn in your legs also
counts as cardio.
Nah, there's no such thing as tone,
Jess.
That's like fitness myth [ __ ]
I've also just never particularly
enjoyed that lift vault of all of them.
I was going for the IRL strength cape
emote before I hurt my uh
shoulders.
Yeah, that sucks. Yeah, I actually I'm
really bad about warming up for stuff,
but I do stretch
um
like usually in the evening
makes a really big difference.
You either have to actually always do
your warm-up or you have to actually do
some dedicated stretching.
How'd you hurt your shoulder?
Uh, somebody distracted me on a dumbbell
press vault.
I think the shoulder is like supposed to
be mostly healed by now, but it kind of
just healed weird.
And the um it's really not worth me
going for heavy overhead now. So I just
compensate and I just go do a bunch of
heavy bench.
I need to do some sort of overhead
pressing at some point. We'll see.
Yeah. So, Vault, I do like this type of
stretch know this behind and like there
every night before bed.
That's actually been helping a lot. And
I no longer am worried about um
hurting myself on bench really because I
just I do bench really super often.
So it never gets like,
you know, it's never like, oh, it's
cold. You haven't benched in a few days.
You weren't warmed up.
I bench wide as well.
That's not why you're hurting it.
Just need like
some good stretching and maybe warm up.
Hello that guy.
Welcome.
Okay, this is kind of cool, right? I
could see this being a decent little
RLN.
M per second,
maybe an M per second.
Well, this dude just didn't [ __ ]
follow the uh the spec, it seems.
Okay, just didn't add perf.
Perf is a required thing, my guy.
Discord.
Is it above the max legal width grip
like for competition?
Is this you?
Is this you just casually flexing a
What is that? Is that index finger on
the outer ring?
You're not super heavy for that bench
either. That's a damn good bench. Holy
[ __ ]
But yeah, pay attention folks.
Contribute to puff or be jacked.
That is a solid ass bench.
I'm trying to get myself up to a three
plate single at the moment.
Even a bit outside outer. I think index
finger on the ring is the max legal
width. If I recall
about where I bench, I'll do either
middle finger or index finger. I got to
train with the Florida State bench champ
a few times in um in Florida. He was
just one of the trainers at the gym and
wasn't even charging much. Um, and he
actually he benches quite a bit
narrower, which is funny.
My immaces like 450
ring finger on inner ring
on inner ring.
I think my barbs only got the one outer
ring
because it's um
Yeah, I just bench with um the Ohio
Power Bar, not like a dedicated bench
bar. know
the bars I have in here. I've got um
I've got two Rogue deadlift bars. I've
got an Ohio power bar in stainless that
I keep on the bench. And then I've got a
Robe uh 55lb squat bar.
If your bench is super narrow, of
course, you're not going to put the same
numbers.
Basically, training triceps.
And presumably you know this
r long enough to bench that.
I mean, those those would be like stupid
good numbers even by the standards of
the uh like the nutty powerlifting gym I
go to in Florida.
It took that video to show it for how
weak I've gotten.
You got to be [ __ ] me.
Wait, what
that say? 20 kg or does it say more than
that?
Yeah, I had um really bad pneumonia a
year and a half ago. I was in the
hospital like completely screwed up my
whole fitness situation.
Sucks.
Yeah, that's a really pretty narrow.
Yeah, that's real narrow.
My wide grip to plates is like eight or
10 reps.
Vault, there's this awesome hack called
um having a bench in your living room.
It's pretty good.
It's pretty funny because like this the
space behind you is the only other space
I have in the building. Like the entire
footprint is just devoted to servers and
weights.
box is noisy a little bit.
It's kind of just like a background
white noise.
your favorite.
Um,
depends if you count overhead press.
I've kind of gone back and forth. I like
pressing, but I can't really at the
moment. Deadlift's been good. My best
was like a 410.
Um, I'm a little out of shape for it
now, but I think I could probably get
mine back to four plates very quickly.
I did um a few months ago I did um
four plate snow belt no straps.
Oh, that mole thingy. I've seen those. I
don't think that would be useful.
At least have yourself a rack for the
garage, right?
This annoys me when I get stuff like cuz
it's like newbie environment and now I
have to spend my time figuring out where
they broke it.
Ah,
this is the nice thing about just being
in the middle of nowhere.
Everything's here kind of.
This is kind of why I like doing uh
doing my thing with research,
I honestly think SF would be the worst
place to go to do AI stuff
in the sense that you just end up
thinking about the same crap everybody
else is thinking about and it's so much
noise.
San Diego. Oh, yeah. Cuz that's super
cheap.
At least San Diego, you just have
permanently nice weather. But
here than
Oh, wait. Are you not in the US?
I figured you in the US
deterministic and un well it's
non-deterministic not undeterministic
first of all
deterministic just means
it's the same every time.
but it's kind of weird because in this
case we have we say it's it is
deterministic because it's reproducible.
There's still randomness in here. It's
just that it's controlled randomness.
Finish. Oh yeah, you're just screwed
there.
Yeah, that's that's screwy.
To be fair, if you're picking a place in
the US, California is the place where of
everything in the US, you get taxed the
most to death.
If you're not in California and you're
just in a random suburb, everything is
half the price and you take at least 10%
off the top of your taxes.
10 percentage points is like 20% of your
tax bill.
Texas.
Texas is pretty good. Depends what tech
you're working on. Bolt
No, LLMs, you can reproduce results,
James.
They're very sensitive to the inputs,
but um you set the temperature. I forget
if it's zero or one. I think it's zero.
You always get the same results.
Well, assuming that your implementation
is good,
all ML that isn't LLMs.
Well, there's plenty of that, Bolt,
presumably by Finnish standards.
anything like basically anything would
be a several x multiple.
I think you'd be able to do um you
should be able to get something quite
good based on the stuff I've seen with
the RSM so far.
Also with Texas, you get a complimentary
shotgun, pistol, and assault rifle as
soon as you cross the border.
Appropriate.
I mean, that's just the same as saying
it's stupid.
Like, no, you don't get any guarantees
on anything, just like with people.
And it's very Stupid.
wanted to say.
Yeah, I got to do Jonah's uh PR soon,
Jess. That one's a bigger one because I
actually have to test that one super
carefully
for neural MMO.
How's New M Spencer? We've got Lights
Out, Overcooked,
uh, and what was the other one I merged
earlier today.
So, you can tell I'm still
I literally can't remember the name of
the end that I merged earlier.
Oh yeah, Boxabon.
They got three M's merged.
They work nicely
here. Look at this.
Yeah, I don't think the problem is risk
modeling.
That's both an over and
underimplification.
Not bad.
It's been 3 hours. I merged four M's. I
said I was going to do about a 4 hour
stream.
Who else we got to do today?
I mean, you're kind of just saying
stuff,
right? Like
I don't know what he just said and
frankly I don't think he knows either.
How do we add plus onek lines on this?
Okay, fine. You know what? 600 of it is
a benchmark.
Okay, that's not bad. 600.